Okay, so we just talked about prettier,
prettier is the tool allows you to format
your code and make it look really nice.
I'm a big fan of prettier, the next
thing we're gonna work on is ESLint, so
ESLint is another one
of my favorite tools.
It allows you to have opinions
of enforced in your code
whereas produce much
more like syntactically.
It's like putting, commas in
the right places and single quotes or
double quotes and spacing.
ESLint is going to be kind of more
higher level more opinionated.
It's going to be like, hey,
we don't use arrow functions here or
we only use single quotes.
In these kinds of contexts or
those kind of things,
things we are enforcing like
your opinion on someone else.
Now don't get me wrong,
this overlap there, right?
ESLint and
prettier can both worry about spacing,
you definitely only want
prettier to worry about that.
And ESLint to worry about
more opinionated things.
But for, I'm going to teach you
how to set them up together so
they kind of work together, in a good way.
So the first thing I want you to do,
cuz I want you to,
come in here to your terminal and
we're gonna say npm install
-D eslint@7.18.0.
And
eslint-config-prettier@8.1.0
sorry 8.1.0.
Okay.
So this is gonna be a pretty Anya pin
unopinionated version of eslint config.
You can make ESLint very
opinionated In fact,
in previous versions of this course
actually taught the Airbnb config.
Adopt the standard config,
there's several of them.
In this one, I'm just gonna actually make
it so it's just, eslint recommended.
Which is a pretty, lacks but still
really good configuration for es lint.
So, once you have those installed,
I want you to go create a file.
Here, called ESLint, RC.Jason.
That's gonna be right next
to your prettier RC as well.
Okay, so have both of those,
make sure it's .eslintrc.json.
It's very significantly you call it so
it doesn't work if you don't
call it the right thing.
Okay?
Opening curly braces and
we're going to have it to extends,
there's gonna be an array and you're
gonna have eslint, Colon recommended.
Okay, and then prettier.
So the order here is significant,
you need to put the first one as eslint
recommended, this is going to
turn on a bunch of options.
And this is also going to turn
on like whitespace rules, and
we need to turn off those rules and
that's what the prettier config does.
The prettier config doesn't
add any rules or doesn't know,
turn on any new features of the essence.
It actually just turns off features
that it checks for, right?
So that's why we have the prettier config,
okay?
We're not going to have any plugins, so
you can put at empty for
the moment parser options.
We're going to be working with ECMA,
version rather ECMA.
EcmaVersion, and
we're gonna do 2021 because it's 2021,
we're gonna do source type module.
This is just telling you like am I doing
common js, am I doing like browser stuff?
We're going to be using ES modules,
so that's where that comes from.
They want to have ECMO features and we're
gonna be using JSX here in just a second.
You have to say JSX true,
just so it expects that.
And then underneath that we're going to
have what environments we're working in.
So m colon Object,
we're gonna be using es16.
So this is could be like map or
weak map or
set like those are like those
Globals that it's expecting.
So that's gonna be true
When a browser so this is gonna be
things like window and fetch and
anything that you can refer to globally.
So true for that, and then eventually
we'll be using some node stuff as well.
So go ahead and set that to true as well,
that'll be things like process and
global and other things like that.
Okay, so this should be everything that
you need to get started with estlint.
So again, I'm just doing eslint
recommended, but you could also
go install the Airbnb config,
in which case you'd look like this, right?
Or you could do standard, you'd have to
go install those plugins to this one or
presets.
But for us, for now, we're just
gonna do estlint colon recommended.
And I just like the less, opinionated take
on this now because for the most part,
eslint introduces friction
to your process, right?
You're writing code and it's making
you stop and rethink your code.
And unless it's truly necessary,
I like to let developers write
code how they think about it.
So this is a less opinionated set,
it's gonna have things like you
created a variable that you never use.
Or you're referencing a variable
that you never created or,
here's a syntax error in some capacity.
There's a bunch of like,
just good idea things here that
are going to prevent bugs.
So I recommend that.
Okay, we're going to
package that JSON now, and
we're going to add another script here.
And this script is gonna say lint,
and whenever we call lint,
we're gonna say eslint and we're going to.
You can actually even copy and paste this,
it's gonna be the same one as we did for
prettier.
And then you can say --quiet, the reason
why we do quiet is eslint can be,
has a lot of stuff that
can come out of it.
And for the most part,
we don't need all of it,
we just want to know if something's wrong.
So that's what the quit does, but if you
want to see all that, just remove that and
it'll show you all the verbose output.
So let's go ahead and run it, make sure
it works, ao if you say npm run lint,
you should see a bunch of errors.
So you can see here all this reactors is
not defined ReactDOM is not undefined.
So if we head over to our
source directory here and
look at app.js you can
see it's underlining now.
And I'll show you how to get that in
your editor here in just a second, but
it's like, hey,
I don't actually know what React is.
You're referencing this thing called
React and I don't know what it is.
It's okay because we put it in
there via the script tag here, but
it doesn't know it's there.
Now, if you need to ignore that,
what you can do here is you can at
the top, put this global react.
And I was like, okay, you're expecting a
global call to react, I'm good with that.
Same thing with react DOMm and
if I said that,
notice that there's no errors and if I
came back here and do run lint No errors.
Now we'll fix this momentarily, so
I'm just gonna take this out, but
that's how you would do that.
So let's install the extension for
VS code now, if you click here, and
search of eslint.
This top one here with the star,
the eslint dbaeumer,
I don't know how you say it, Dirk Baeumer.
Installed that one, and
then that will just integrate nicely,
you might have to restart your VS code.
But now you'll start seeing
these underlines, in this case,
we're violating the no undefined.
But same thing here, if I say like
const x equals five, you'll see that
we'll get that hey, yes, Lin says
oops He can't do unused variables.
I think you can even click on this and
I click Open,
this will actually take me
to the ESM documentation.
Where it says like, okay, here is
exactly the rule that you're violating.
So that's the essence, we'll keep
expanding upon our configuration here but
this is a good place for
us to get started with.